Google Summer of Code 2013
==========================

.. post:: 23 Feb, 2013

Want to develop multibody dynamics software this summer in a large
collaborative open source team?

The PyDy project is searching for ideal candidates to participate in Google’s
Summer of Code (GSoC). Ideal candidates should be a student and have a strong
interest in dynamics, visualization/animation, and have experience with Python,
C/C++, and/or Javascript. PyDy has been developed during three previous GSoC
grants as part of the `SymPy project <http://www.sympy.org>`_. The core
software can derive symbolic equations of motion of complex multibody systems.
`This example problem <http://www.moorepants.info/blog/npendulum.html>`_ gives
you an idea of the current capabilities. This year we are focusing on code
which interfaces these symbolic equations with modern tools for simulation and
visualization (plotting and 3D animation) which will be developed under SymPy
and other relevant projects. The accepted applicant(s) will get high level
experience in Python, C/C++, and Javascript languages, agile open source
development practices, version control, large scale collaboration, and
multibody dynamics including Kane’s and Lagrange’s methods.

If you are interested in applying check out the
:doc:`getting started page </management/google_summer_of_code>`. Then send an
email to the
`PyDy mailing list <https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/pydy>`_
with a brief statement explaining your experience and why you think you are a
good candidate for the position(s). The PyDy team will work directly with the
top candidates to strengthen their GSoC applications.
